packages/malkovich/PR_DEPLOYMENT.md, before:

# PR Deployment System

Malkovich includes a built-in PR deployment system that allows automatic and manual deployment of pull request branches for testing.

## Overview

This system enables:
- **Automatic PR deployments** via GitHub Actions webhooks
- **Manual PR deployments** via CLI (for Cursor agents)
- **Public access** for contributor PRs (no token required)
- **Isolated environments** per PR
- **Automatic cleanup** when PRs close or after 7 days

## Security Model

- ✅ **Only contributor PRs** (forks are blocked)
- ✅ **Public access** (no authentication required)
- ✅ **Rate limited** (10 req/s per IP)
- ✅ **Not indexed** by search engines
- ✅ **Resource limits** (512MB RAM, 50% CPU per service)
- ✅ **Isolated** (separate directories, ports, databases)

## Architecture

Each PR deployment:
- Gets its own directory: `/home/garage44/pr-{number}/`
- Runs on dedicated ports: `40000 + (PR# * 3)` range
- Has its own nginx subdomain: `pr-{number}.garage44.org`
- Runs as separate systemd services: `pr-{number}-malkovich.service`, etc.

## CLI Commands

### Deploy a PR

```bash
# Deploy current branch as PR #999
bun run malkovich deploy-pr \
  --number 999 \
  --branch $(git branch --show-current)

# Deploy specific branch
bun run malkovich deploy-pr \
  --number 123 \
  --branch feature/new-ui

# Deploy specific commit
bun run malkovich deploy-pr \
  --number 123 \
  --branch feature/new-ui \
  --sha abc123def456
```

**Output:**
```
✅ PR Deployment Successful!

URL: https://pr-999.garage44.org
Malkovich: https://pr-999.garage44.org

Ports:
  Malkovich: 40000
  Expressio: 40001
  Pyrite: 40002

Note: Deployment is publicly accessible (no token required)
```

### List Active Deployments

```bash
bun run malkovich list-pr-deployments
```

**Output:**
```
Active PR Deployments (2):

PR #123:
  Branch: feature/new-ui
  Author: local
  Age: 2 hours
  URL: https://pr-123.garage44.org
  Ports: 40369 (malkovich), 40367 (expressio), 40368 (pyrite)
  Status: running

PR #456:
  Branch: fix/translation-bug
  Author: local
  Age: 5 hours
  URL: https://pr-456.garage44.org
  Ports: 41368 (malkovich), 41366 (expressio), 41367 (pyrite)
  Status: running
```

### Cleanup a PR

```bash
# Remove a specific PR deployment
bun run malkovich cleanup-pr --number 123
```

### Cleanup Stale Deployments

```bash
# Remove deployments older than 7 days (default)
bun run malkovich cleanup-stale-prs

# Custom age threshold
bun run malkovich cleanup-stale-prs --max-age-days 3
```

## Implementation Files

### Core System
- `lib/pr-registry.ts` - Registry for tracking deployments
- `lib/pr-deploy.ts` - Deployment manager
- `lib/pr-cleanup.ts` - Cleanup utilities
- `lib/webhook.ts` - Enhanced to handle PR events
- `service.ts` - CLI commands added

### Deployment Templates
- `../../deploy/pr-cleanup.timer` - Systemd timer for daily cleanup
- `../../deploy/pr-cleanup.service` - Systemd service for cleanup
- `../../.github/workflows/pr-deploy.yml` - GitHub Actions workflow

## GitHub Actions Integration

When you open a PR, GitHub Actions automatically:
1. Validates it's from main repo (not a fork)
2. Sends webhook to VPS
3. VPS deploys the PR
4. Bot comments on PR with deployment URL

## Cursor Agent Usage

Cursor agents can trigger deployments directly:

```typescript
// Agent deploys current work
await $`bun run malkovich deploy-pr --number 999 --branch $(git branch --show-current)`

// Agent reports back
console.log("Deployment available at: https://pr-999.garage44.org")

// Agent cleans up after testing
await $`bun run malkovich cleanup-pr --number 999`
```

## Installation

See `/workspace/docs/pr-deployment-implementation.md` for full installation guide.

**Quick setup:**

1. Get wildcard SSL cert: `sudo certbot certonly --standalone -d "*.garage44.org"`
2. Configure nginx rate limiting (add to `/etc/nginx/nginx.conf`)
3. Install cleanup timer: `sudo systemctl enable pr-cleanup.timer`
4. Update sudo permissions for service management

## Port Allocation

Ports are automatically calculated:
```
PR #123:
  - Malkovich: 40369 (40000 + 123*3 + 0)
  - Expressio: 40370 (40000 + 123*3 + 1)
  - Pyrite: 40371 (40000 + 123*3 + 2)
```

Range: 40000-49999 (supports ~3,333 concurrent PRs)

## Monitoring

### View Logs
```bash
# Service logs
sudo journalctl -u pr-123-malkovich.service -f

# All PR services
sudo journalctl -u pr-123-* -f
```

### Check Status
```bash
# Service status
systemctl status pr-123-malkovich.service

# Resource usage
systemctl show pr-123-malkovich.service -p MemoryCurrent
```

### Nginx Logs
```bash
# Access logs
sudo tail -f /var/log/nginx/access.log | grep pr-123

# Error logs
sudo tail -f /var/log/nginx/error.log | grep pr-123
```

## Troubleshooting

### Deployment Fails
- Check build logs: `sudo journalctl -u pr-123-malkovich.service -n 100`
- Verify branch exists: `git ls-remote origin feature/branch-name`
- Check disk space: `df -h`

### Can't Access Deployment
- Test nginx: `sudo nginx -t`
- Check DNS: `dig pr-123.garage44.org`
- Verify SSL cert: `sudo certbot certificates`
- Check service status: `systemctl status pr-123-malkovich.service`

### Manual Cleanup
```bash
# Stop services
sudo systemctl stop pr-123-*.service

# Remove units
sudo rm -f /etc/systemd/system/pr-123-*.service
sudo systemctl daemon-reload

# Remove nginx config
sudo rm -f /etc/nginx/sites-*/pr-123.garage44.org
sudo nginx -s reload

# Remove directory
rm -rf /home/garage44/pr-123
```

## Best Practices

### For Agents
1. Use high PR numbers for testing (900+)
2. Clean up test deployments promptly
3. Check active deployments before deploying
4. Use descriptive branch names

### For Developers
1. Close PRs when done (triggers cleanup)
2. Don't commit sensitive data
3. Use dummy data for testing
4. Monitor resource usage

## Documentation

- **Architecture Design**: `/workspace/docs/pr-deployment.md`
- **Implementation Guide**: `/workspace/docs/pr-deployment-implementation.md`
- **Agent Guide**: `/workspace/docs/cursor-agent-pr-deploy.md`
- **GitHub Workflow**: `/workspace/.github/workflows/pr-deploy.yml`

## Summary

The PR deployment system integrated into Malkovich provides:
- ✅ Automatic deployments from GitHub
- ✅ Manual deployments via CLI
- ✅ Public access for contributors
- ✅ Complete isolation
- ✅ Automatic cleanup
- ✅ Perfect for agent testing

**Quick start for Cursor agents:**
```bash
bun run malkovich deploy-pr --number 999 --branch $(git branch --show-current)
```

Commit message:

feat: Auto-discover packages for PR deployments
This change enables PR deployments to automatically discover and deploy packages based on the workspace configuration, mirroring the logic of the main deployment. It also improves cleanup efficiency by using wildcard patterns for systemd services.

Co-authored-by: jvanveen <jvanveen@protonmail.com>

packages/malkovich/PR_DEPLOYMENT.md, after:

# PR Deployment System

Malkovich includes a built-in PR deployment system that allows automatic and manual deployment of pull request branches for testing.

## Overview

This system enables:
- **Automatic PR deployments** via GitHub Actions webhooks
- **Manual PR deployments** via CLI (for Cursor agents)
- **Public access** for contributor PRs (no token required)
- **Isolated environments** per PR
- **Automatic cleanup** when PRs close or after 7 days

## Security Model

- ✅ **Only contributor PRs** (forks are blocked)
- ✅ **Public access** (no authentication required)
- ✅ **Rate limited** (10 req/s per IP)
- ✅ **Not indexed** by search engines
- ✅ **Resource limits** (512MB RAM, 50% CPU per service)
- ✅ **Isolated** (separate directories, ports, databases)

## Architecture

Each PR deployment:
- Gets its own directory: `/home/garage44/pr-{number}/`
- Runs on dedicated ports: `40000 + (PR# * 3)` range
- Has its own nginx subdomain: `pr-{number}.garage44.org`
- Runs as separate systemd services: `pr-{number}-malkovich.service`, etc.
- **Auto-discovers packages**: Scans workspace to determine which packages to deploy (same logic as main deployment)

## CLI Commands

### Deploy a PR

```bash
# Deploy current branch as PR #999
bun run malkovich deploy-pr \
  --number 999 \
  --branch $(git branch --show-current)

# Deploy specific branch
bun run malkovich deploy-pr \
  --number 123 \
  --branch feature/new-ui

# Deploy specific commit
bun run malkovich deploy-pr \
  --number 123 \
  --branch feature/new-ui \
  --sha abc123def456
```

**Output:**
```
✅ PR Deployment Successful!

URL: https://pr-999.garage44.org
Malkovich: https://pr-999.garage44.org

Ports:
  Malkovich: 40000
  Expressio: 40001
  Pyrite: 40002

Note: Deployment is publicly accessible (no token required)
```

### List Active Deployments

```bash
bun run malkovich list-pr-deployments
```

**Output:**
```
Active PR Deployments (2):

PR #123:
  Branch: feature/new-ui
  Author: local
  Age: 2 hours
  URL: https://pr-123.garage44.org
  Ports: 40369 (malkovich), 40367 (expressio), 40368 (pyrite)
  Status: running

PR #456:
  Branch: fix/translation-bug
  Author: local
  Age: 5 hours
  URL: https://pr-456.garage44.org
  Ports: 41368 (malkovich), 41366 (expressio), 41367 (pyrite)
  Status: running
```

### Cleanup a PR

```bash
# Remove a specific PR deployment
bun run malkovich cleanup-pr --number 123
```

### Cleanup Stale Deployments

```bash
# Remove deployments older than 7 days (default)
bun run malkovich cleanup-stale-prs

# Custom age threshold
bun run malkovich cleanup-stale-prs --max-age-days 3
```

## Implementation Files

### Core System
- `lib/pr-registry.ts` - Registry for tracking deployments
- `lib/pr-deploy.ts` - Deployment manager
- `lib/pr-cleanup.ts` - Cleanup utilities
- `lib/webhook.ts` - Enhanced to handle PR events
- `service.ts` - CLI commands added

### Deployment Templates
- `../../deploy/pr-cleanup.timer` - Systemd timer for daily cleanup
- `../../deploy/pr-cleanup.service` - Systemd service for cleanup
- `../../.github/workflows/pr-deploy.yml` - GitHub Actions workflow

## GitHub Actions Integration

When you open a PR, GitHub Actions automatically:
1. Validates it's from main repo (not a fork)
2. Sends webhook to VPS
3. VPS deploys the PR
4. Bot comments on PR with deployment URL

## Cursor Agent Usage

Cursor agents can trigger deployments directly:

```typescript
// Agent deploys current work
await $`bun run malkovich deploy-pr --number 999 --branch $(git branch --show-current)`

// Agent reports back
console.log("Deployment available at: https://pr-999.garage44.org")

// Agent cleans up after testing
await $`bun run malkovich cleanup-pr --number 999`
```

## Installation

See `/workspace/docs/pr-deployment-implementation.md` for full installation guide.

**Quick setup:**

1. Get wildcard SSL cert: `sudo certbot certonly --standalone -d "*.garage44.org"`
2. Configure nginx rate limiting (add to `/etc/nginx/nginx.conf`)
3. Install cleanup timer: `sudo systemctl enable pr-cleanup.timer`
4. Update sudo permissions for service management

## Port Allocation

Ports are automatically calculated:
```
PR #123:
  - Malkovich: 40369 (40000 + 123*3 + 0)
  - Expressio: 40370 (40000 + 123*3 + 1)
  - Pyrite: 40371 (40000 + 123*3 + 2)
```

Range: 40000-49999 (supports ~3,333 concurrent PRs)

## Monitoring

### View Logs
```bash
# Service logs
sudo journalctl -u pr-123-malkovich.service -f

# All PR services
sudo journalctl -u pr-123-* -f
```

### Check Status
```bash
# Service status
systemctl status pr-123-malkovich.service

# Resource usage
systemctl show pr-123-malkovich.service -p MemoryCurrent
```

### Nginx Logs
```bash
# Access logs
sudo tail -f /var/log/nginx/access.log | grep pr-123

# Error logs
sudo tail -f /var/log/nginx/error.log | grep pr-123
```

## Troubleshooting

### Deployment Fails
- Check build logs: `sudo journalctl -u pr-123-malkovich.service -n 100`
- Verify branch exists: `git ls-remote origin feature/branch-name`
- Check disk space: `df -h`

### Can't Access Deployment
- Test nginx: `sudo nginx -t`
- Check DNS: `dig pr-123.garage44.org`
- Verify SSL cert: `sudo certbot certificates`
- Check service status: `systemctl status pr-123-malkovich.service`

### Manual Cleanup
```bash
# Stop services
sudo systemctl stop pr-123-*.service

# Remove units
sudo rm -f /etc/systemd/system/pr-123-*.service
sudo systemctl daemon-reload

# Remove nginx config
sudo rm -f /etc/nginx/sites-*/pr-123.garage44.org
sudo nginx -s reload

# Remove directory
rm -rf /home/garage44/pr-123
```

## Best Practices

### For Agents
1. Use high PR numbers for testing (900+)
2. Clean up test deployments promptly
3. Check active deployments before deploying
4. Use descriptive branch names

### For Developers
1. Close PRs when done (triggers cleanup)
2. Don't commit sensitive data
3. Use dummy data for testing
4. Monitor resource usage

## Documentation

- **Architecture Design**: `/workspace/docs/pr-deployment.md`
- **Implementation Guide**: `/workspace/docs/pr-deployment-implementation.md`
- **Agent Guide**: `/workspace/docs/cursor-agent-pr-deploy.md`
- **GitHub Workflow**: `/workspace/.github/workflows/pr-deploy.yml`

## Summary

The PR deployment system integrated into Malkovich provides:
- ✅ Automatic deployments from GitHub
- ✅ Manual deployments via CLI
- ✅ Public access for contributors
- ✅ Complete isolation
- ✅ Automatic cleanup
- ✅ Perfect for agent testing

**Quick start for Cursor agents:**
```bash
bun run malkovich deploy-pr --number 999 --branch $(git branch --show-current)
```
